.TH AI-Z 1 "January 2026" "ai-z" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-z \- performance timelines (CPU/GPU/Disk/PCIe) and benchmarks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ai-z
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ai-z
is a terminal UI (TUI) application that displays performance timelines and runs quick benchmarks.
.TP
.B F5
or
.B M
Minimal
.TP
.B F6
or
.B P
Processes

Use function keys (or the listed letter shortcuts) to switch views.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-help " , " \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
.TP
Run with synthetic/fake timelines (useful for debugging the timeline renderer).
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B F1
or
.B H
Help
.TP
.B F2
or
.B W
Hardware info
.TP
.B F3
or
.B B
Benchmarks
.TP
.B F4
or
.B C
Config display
.TP
.B F5
or
.B M
Minimal
.TP
.B F6
or
.B P
Processes
.TP
.B F10
or
.B Q
Quit
.SH BENCHMARKS
Some benchmarks depend on optional GPU backends (e.g. CUDA, Vulkan, OpenCL).
If a backend was not built in, or if the required runtime libraries/drivers are missing on the system,
the benchmark may appear as unavailable.

CUDA support is runtime-optional: it becomes available when the NVIDIA driver (libcuda) is present.
The CUDA Toolkit (nvcc) is not required to run the built-in CUDA benchmarks.
Some CUDA compute benchmarks may use a compatibility fallback when native instructions are not supported
by the current GPU/driver (results may be labeled as emulated).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ai-z/config.ini
Configuration file (or
.BR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ai-z/config.ini
if set).
.SH SEE ALSO
Project website:
.I https://www.ai-z.org
